JUDY WOODRUFF: Campaigning has
ended in the fiercely contested
British general election.
Prime Minister Theresa May of
the Conservative Party called
the vote in order to boost her
authority as Britain
negotiates its withdrawal
from the European Union.
Her main challenge
comes from Labor Party
leader, Jeremy Corbyn.
But the campaign has
been overshadowed by two
recent terrorist attacks.
Special correspondent Malcolm
Brabant reports from London.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Along with
many young Britons, Steve and
Keeley Whitton dream of raising
their children in a
home of their own.
London's expensive real estate
is beyond their reach, and so
they live with Steve's parents.
But affordable housing isn't
top of their election agenda.
Saturday's terrorist attack, two
miles from where they live, is.
KEELEY WHITTON, Voter: A couple
of times, actually, whenever
we have gone out, really,
we have had the conversation,
what are we going to do
if something happens?
STEVE WHITTON, Voter:
If something did happen,
just having a plan,
basically having -- so
I will grab one kid,
she will grab the other.
For the past couple of weeks,
after the terrorist attacks in
Manchester and London, security
has gone up in my own
agenda, as far as who
I'm going to vote for.
And I think a lot of people are
now looking, all right, who's
best going to deliver security?
MALCOLM BRABANT: Vigilance,
tolerance and remembrance
unite these people.
They're from Borough
Market, where the three
Islamist terrorists
lashed out with knives
before being shot dead.
The traders have been kept away
from their businesses, while
forensics experts gathered
evidence.
VERY REV.
ANDREW NUNN, Dean of
Southwark: So, we're going
to keep a moment of silence.
They're keeping it at the
other end of the bridge
in St. Paul's cathedral.
They know we're here.
We know they're there.
We're standing in solidarity,
the two cathedrals and
our communities together.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Sir Simon
Hughes was the area's member
of Parliament for 32 years from
the Liberal Democrats,
the third largest party.
He lost his seat to the
Labor candidate in 2015.
Winning it back would hurt
Labor and help Theresa May.
SIR SIMON HUGHES, Former
Justice Minister: Actually, the
public services are at the top
of people's agenda.
People want us to have the
police we need, the nurses
we need, the doctors we need.
It is now an issue.
The security of the country,
dealing with the very few
people who want to disrupt us
is a major political issue now
in this country, and it will be
the biggest issue on the desk
of the incoming prime minister
and the incoming government.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The belief that
radicalization and terrorism
are fuelled by deprivation,
social isolation, and
Britain's military campaigns
abroad will guide Jill Rose.
JILL ROSE, Voter:
There are two issues.
There are the immediate, about
how we stop or try and stop
more terrorist attacks, and
then the bigger picture
that is equally important.
And, for me, that means voting
Labor in terms of the approach,
changing this world that
really goes back to the
cuts and the approach of
the current government.
MAN: Now would you please
welcome the leader of the
Labor Party, Jeremy Corbyn?
MALCOLM BRABANT: Jeremy
Corbyn's Achilles' heel is
security, say his critics.
They fear Britain's defense
would be weakened by a lifelong
self-professed pacifist taking
control of Britain's Trident
nuclear missile system.
JEREMY CORBYN, Leader, Labor
Party: We have to obviously
try to protect ourselves.
We wouldn't use it as first use.
And if we did use it,
millions are going to die.
You have to think
these things through.
MAN: Close down NATO.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This
conservative ad uses Corbyn's
past and words to attack him.
JEREMY CORBYN: Fight all
the cuts, except those
in the armed forces.
Our friends from Hezbollah,
friends from Hamas.
KATE HOEY, Labor M.P.: I don't
think people need fear because
he said something 30 years
ago or appeared with somebody.
You know, we have all had
our past and our histories.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Kate Hoey has
been a Labor M.P. for 28 years,
and her seat is under threat
because she supported Brexit.
KATE HOEY: I think Jeremy
would know that, being prime
minister, the first duty is to
protect the British public.
And I think, even though
he has said things in the
past, people grow into a job.
And I think I have
seen changes in Jeremy.
I have known him for a very
long time, and even over the
last year, I have seen how he's
changed, in terms of the
way he puts his views.
MAN: Please welcome the leader
of the Conservative Party, the
prime minister, Theresa May.
MALCOLM BRABANT: When Theresa
May called the snap election
in April, the Conservatives
were 17 percent ahead of Labor.
Her refusal to debate Corbyn
helped erode the advantage.
MAN: You have called a general
election for the good of the
Conservative Party, and it's
going to backfire on you.
THERESA MAY, British Prime
Minister: No, I called...
(APPLAUSE)
THERESA MAY: I called a general
election because I believe that
the British people have a right
to vote and to say who they
want to see leading them
through the Brexit negotiations.
MATTHEW PARRIS, Columnist,
The Times: She has personally
been winged like a bird's been
winged.
She has appeared
inadequate and indecisive.
She has changed her
mind, and pretended that
she hasn't changed her
mind, and I don't think
people will ever see her in
quite the same way again.
MALCOLM BRABANT: From his
Thames-side warehouse loft,
former conservative M.P.
Matthew Parris, now a respected
columnist, has written some
damning commentaries about
the prime minister.
MATTHEW PARRIS: She doesn't
have those quicksilver
qualities that are perhaps
needed in a statesman
and needed in negotiation.
She's rigid.
THERESA MAY: The
conservative party can
build a better Britain.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This song,
banned from the air by the BBC,
has hit the top of the British
charts.
WOMAN (singing):
She's a liar, liar.
Oh, she's a liar, liar.
Oh, you can't trust
her, no, no, no.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But above this
betting shop in East London,
there's optimism in the campaign
office of Conservative
candidate Lee Scott.
He's trying to reclaim a seat
lost to Labor in 2015, and
says he's reaping the benefit
of May's promise to
crack down on extremists.
LEE SCOTT, Candidate
for Parliament: They
are totally committed
to going out and voting
for me.
SASHA JOHNSTON, Voter: Anyone
slightly to the right is being
made to feel almost guilty
to have to be center-right.
LEE SCOTT: You know, they want
to try and make people feel
guilty to love their country,
guilty to want to stand
up for what's right,
guilty for wanting to
try to have a firm law
and order policy.
They're not going to work.
And on the doorsteps, people
are saying to me that it's
about strong leadership.
And that strong leadership
is coming from Theresa May,
certainly not from Mr. Corbyn.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The latest
opinion polls suggest that
Theresa May's gamble will pay
off, and that she will be
returned to office with
an increased majority.
But many pollsters have been
wrong in the recent past, most
notably failing to correctly
predict the Brexit vote during
last year's E.U. referendum.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant in London.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Thank you, Malcolm.